PyBikes
=========

PyBikes provides a set of tools to scrape bike sharing data from different
websites and APIs, thus providing a coherent and generalized set of classes
and methods to access this sort of information.

The library is distributed and intended mainly for statistics and data
sharing projects. More importantly, it powers the [CityBikes] [1] project.

This experimental branch is being used on the [development server] [2], and
when completion of bike network support is on par with the ones on the master
branch, it will be used on production.

The library is composed of a set of classes (under pybikes), and a pack of
data files that provide instances for all different systems.

Usage
------
    >>> import pybikes

    # Capital BikeShare instantiation data is in bixi.json file
    >>> capital_bikeshare = pybikes.getBikeShareSystem(
            'bixi','capital-bikeshare'
        )

    # The instance contains all possible metadata regarding this system
    >>> print(capital_bikeshare.meta)
    {
        'name': 'Capital BikeShare',
        'city': 'Washington, DC - Arlington, VA',
        'longitude': -77.0363658,
        'system': 'Bixi',
        'company': 'PBSC',
        'country': 'USA',
        'latitude': 38.8951118
    }
    # The update method retrieves the list of stations
    >>> print(len(capital_bikeshare.stations))
    0
    >>> capital_bikeshare.update()
    >>> print(len(capital_bikeshare.stations))
    191
    >>> print(capital_bikeshare.stations[0])
    --- 31000 - 20th & Bell St ---
    bikes: 7
    free: 4
    latlng: 38.8561,-77.0512
    extra: {
        'installed': True,
        'uid': 1,
        'locked': False,
        'removalDate': '',
        'installDate': '1316059200000',
        'terminalName': '31000',
        'temporary': False,
        'name': '20th & Bell St',
        'latestUpdateTime': '1353454305589'
    }

Some systems might require an API key to work (for instance, Cyclocity). In
these cases, the instance factory can take an extra API key parameter.

    >>> key = "This is not an API key"
    >>> velib = pybikes.getBikeShareSystem('cyclocity', 'velib', key)

Note that pybikes works as an instance factory and, choicely, instances can be
generated by passing the right arguments to the desired class

    >>> from pybikes import BixiSystem
    >>> capital_bikeshare = BixiSystem(
            tag = 'foo_tag',
            root_url = 'http://capitalbikeshare.com/data/stations/',
            meta = {'foo':'bar'}
        )

The way information is retrieved can be tweaked using the PyBikesScraper class
included on the utils module thus allowing session reusing and niceties such as
using a proxy. This class internally uses [Requests] [2], and when using an
https proxy falls back to urllib2.

    >>> scraper = pybikes.utils.PyBikesScraper()
    >>> scraper.enableProxy()
    >>> scraper.setProxies({
            "http" : "127.0.0.1:8118",
            "https": "127.0.0.1:8118"
        })
    >>> scraper.setUserAgent("Walrus™ v3.0")
    >>> scraper.headers['Foo'] = 'bar'
    >>> capital_bikeshare.update(scraper)

[1]: http://www.citybik.es              "CityBikes"
[2]: http://staging.citybik.es          "Development Server"
[3]: http://docs.python-requests.org    "Requests"

